Glossary refresh (#1062)
spatialos/gdk-for-unity: docs/reference/glossary.md

> <%(TOC max="3")%>

Author: Limits which markdown headers make it into the toc. Max = 3 means that only up to `###` headers make it in

## Schema

Schema is how you define [SpatialOS components](#spatialos-component) in your [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world).

You define your SpatialOS components in `.schema` files that are written in [schemalang](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#schemalang). 

SpatialOS uses schema to [generate code](#code-generation). You can use this generated code in your [workers](#worker) to interact with [SpatialOS entities](#spatialos-entity) in the SpatialOS world.

> **Related:**
>
> * [Introduction to schema](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/schema/introduction)
> * [Schema reference](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/schema/reference)

## Simulated Player

Simulated players are client-worker instances, mimicking real players of your game from a connection flow and server-worker load perspective. To SpatialOS they are indistinguishable from real players, so this is the recommended approach to regular scale testing.

> In the FPS Starter Project, simulated players are hosted in a separate deployment to ensure that they do not share resources with `UnityGameLogic` server-worker instances. They are managed by [Simulated Player Coordinator](#simulated-player-coordinator) worker-instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the FPS Starter Project, simulated players are hosted in a separate deployment to ensure that they do not share resources with `UnityGameLogic` server-worker instances. They are managed by [simulated player coordinator](#simulated-player-coordinator) worker-instances.
```

A worker checks out all chunks that it is [interested in](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#interest).

> **Related:**
>

> > * [Entity interest](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/worker-configuration/bridge-config#entity-interest)

Reviewer: link is broken

* Connect a client worker instance to a cloud deployment via your Unity Editor so that you can debug using the [development authentication flow](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/auth/development-authentication).

> **Related:**
>
> * [Connecting to SpatialOS]({{urlRoot}}/reference/concepts/connection-flows)
> * [Creating your own game authentication server](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/auth/integrate-authentication-platform-sdk)
> * [Development authentication flow](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/auth/development-authentication)

## Message

A [worker instance](#worker) can send and receive messages to and from the [SpatialOS Runtime](#spatialos-runtime). These messages can be:

* Component updates: messages that describe property updates for any [SpatialOS component](#spatialos-component)
* [Events](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#event): messages about something that happened to a SpatialOS entity that are broadcasted to all workers.

> * [Commands](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#command): Messages used to send a direct message to another worker that has [write access](#write-access) over the corresponding SpatialOS component.

Author: ```suggestion
* [Commands](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#command): Messages that are sent directly to another worker that has [write access](#write-access) over the corresponding SpatialOS component.
```

> **Related:**
>
> * [Sending and receiving events using MonoBehaviours]({{urlRoot}}/reference/workflows/monobehaviour/interaction/reader-writers/events)
> * [Sending and receiving events using ECS]({{urlRoot}}/reference/workflows/ecs/interaction/events)

## MonoBehaviour

A MonoBehaviour stores the data and logic that defines the behaviour of the GameObject they are attached to. We provide support to [interact with SpatialOS using MonoBehaviours]({{urlRoot}}/reference/workflows/monobehaviour/interaction/reader-writers/lifecycle).

> **Related:**
>
> * [Unity Scripting API Reference: MonoBehaviour](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/MonoBehaviour.html)

## Project name

<span style="display: block;margin-top: -20px;font-size: 10pt;"><i>Not to be confused with [SpatialOS Project](#spatialos-project) or [Unity Project](#unity-project).</i></span>

Your project name is randomly generated when you sign up for SpatialOS. It’s usually something like `beta_someword_anotherword_000`. You can find your project name in the [Console](https://console.improbable.io/).

> You must specify this name in the [spatialos.json](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/reference/file-formats/spatialos-json) file in the root of your [SpatialOS project](#spatialos-project).

Reviewer: link is broken

Reviewer 2: https://docs.improbable.io/reference/13.8/shared/project-layout/spatialos-json#project-definition-file-spatialos-json

An example reactive component is the `ComponentAdded` component. It is added to an Unity ECS Entity representing a SpatialOS entity when a new SpatialOS component has been added to the SpatialOS entity. The GDK adds the corresponding ECS component automatically to the ECS entity, however you might want to run additional systems to react to this change in the current update loop. The `ComponentAdded` component is removed when the `CleanReactiveComponentsSystem` runs.

Reactive components contain all updates and messages received during the last [update loop](#update-loop). In every update loop, the contents of a reactive component are processed by whichever [Unity ECS System](#unity-ecs-system) is set up to react to those state changes or messages.

> **Related:**
>
> * [Reactive components]({{urlRoot}}/reference/workflows/ecs/interaction/reactive-components/overview)

## Receptionist connection flow

The Receptionist service allows for a direct connection to the SpatialOS runtime and is the standard flow used to:

> * connect any type of worker in a local deployment

Author: ```suggestion
* connect any type of worker to a local deployment
```

> * connecting a [server-worker](#server-worker) in a cloud deployment

Author: ```suggestion
* connect a [server-worker](#server-worker) to a cloud deployment
```

> * connecting a [client-worker](#client-worker) when using `spatial cloud connect external`.

Author: ```suggestion
* connect a [client-worker](#client-worker) when using `spatial cloud connect external`.
```

> **Related:**
>
> * [Snapshots](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/operate/snapshots)

## SpatialOS Assembly

<span style="display: block;margin-top: -20px;font-size: 10pt;"><i>Not to be confused with [.NET assembly (.NET documentation)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/app-domains/assemblies-in-the-common-language-runtime).</i></span>

A SpatialOS assembly is created when you build your workers. It contains all the files that your game uses at runtime. This includes the compiled code, an executable and the assets your [workers](#worker) require.

The SpatialOS assembly is stored locally at `build\assembly` in the root directory of your SpatialOS project. Any SpatialOS assembly that has been uploaded is accessible from the [Console](https://console.improbable.io/).

> **Related:**
>
> * [spatial cloud upload](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/spatial-cli/spatial-cloud-upload)
> * [Deploying to the cloud]({{urlRoot}}/reference/concepts/deployments#cloud-deployment)

> ## `spatial` command-line tool (CLI)

Reviewer: needs a warning that you can't use those commands like that

Your project name is randomly generated when you sign up for SpatialOS. It’s usually something like `beta_someword_anotherword_000`. You can find your project name in the [Console](https://console.improbable.io/).

You must specify this name in the [spatialos.json](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/reference/file-formats/spatialos-json) file in the root of your [SpatialOS project](#spatialos-project).

## Persistence

Persistence is a SpatialOS [component](#spatialos-component) in the standard [schema](#schema) library. It’s optional, but all SpatialOS [entities](#spatialos-entity) that you want to persist in the [world](#spatialos-world) must have this component. Persistence means that entities are saved into [snapshots](#snapshot).

If an entity doesn’t have this component, it won’t be captured in snapshots. For example, you probably don’t want the entities associated with players to be saved into a snapshot you take of a deployment, because the players won’t be connected when you restart the deployment.

## Position

> Position is a [component](#spatialos-component) in the standard [schema](#schema) library. Every SpatialOS [entities](#spatialos-entity) must have this component. It defines the position of an entity in the [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world).

Author: Probably write `Persistence` in a similar format

An example reactive component is the `ComponentAdded` component. It is added to an Unity ECS Entity representing a SpatialOS entity when a new SpatialOS component has been added to the SpatialOS entity. The GDK adds the corresponding ECS component automatically to the ECS entity, however you might want to run additional systems to react to this change in the current update loop. The `ComponentAdded` component is removed when the `CleanReactiveComponentsSystem` runs.

Reactive components contain all updates and messages received during the last [update loop](#update-loop). In every update loop, the contents of a reactive component are processed by whichever [Unity ECS System](#unity-ecs-system) is set up to react to those state changes or messages.

> **Related:**
>
> * [Reactive components]({{urlRoot}}/reference/workflows/ecs/interaction/reactive-components/overview)

## Receptionist connection flow

The Receptionist service allows for a direct connection to the SpatialOS runtime and is the standard flow used to:

> * connect any type of worker in a local deployment

Author: I agree with 1/2 of this suggestion:

* `in` -> `to` ✔️
* `connect` -> `connecting` ❌ 

The other bullet points should change to `connect` instead.

* connecting a [server-worker](#server-worker) in a cloud deployment
* connecting a [client-worker](#client-worker) when using `spatial cloud connect external`.

> Related:
>
> * [Connecting to SpatialOS]({{urlRoot}}/reference/concepts/connection-flows)

## Read access

[Access control lists](#access-control-list-acl) define which workers can have read access over an entity. Read access is defined at the entity level: if a worker can read from an entity, it is allowed to read from all components on that entity.

> **Related:**
>
> * [Understanding read and write access](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/design/understanding-access)

## Schema

Schema is how you define [SpatialOS components](#spatialos-component) in your [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world).

> You define your SpatialOS components in `.schema` files that are written in [schemalang](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#schemalang). Schema files are stored in the `schema` folder in the root directory of your SpatialOS project.

Author: Strictly speaking its still the `schema` folder, but practically, its not limited to that

* All of the [SpatialOS assemblies](#spatialos-assembly) you’ve uploaded
* Links to the [Inspector](#inspector), [Launcher](#launcher), and the logs and metrics page for your deployments.

> **Related:**
>
> * [Logs](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/operate/logs#cloud-deployments)
> * [Metrics](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/operate/metrics)

> ## Core module

Author: I think I'm going to remove this.

The GDK for Unity is made up of the core module and a number of [feature modules](#feature-modules). The core module is compulsory and provides functionality to enable your game to run on SpatialOS. The core module consists out of the following [Unity packages](#unity-packages):

* SpatialOS GDK Core (`io.improbable.gdk.core`)
* SpatialOS GDK Test Utils (`io.improbable.gdk.testutils`)
* SpatialOS GDK Tools (`io.improbable.gdk.tools`)

These packages provide the base implementation for synchronizing your worker instance's local state with the SpatialOS Runtime.

> **Related:**
>
> * [Core and Feature modules]({{urlRoot}}/modules/core-and-feature-module-overview)

## Deploying

> When you want to try out your game, you need to deploy it. This means launching SpatialOS itself.

Author: Hmm - I guess my concern is that page suggests `spatial local launch` will work, whereas we need `spatial local launch --enable_pre_run_check=false`

> When you want to try out your game, you need to deploy it. This means launching SpatialOS itself.

Reviewer: but the link for "Local deployments" links to the glossary as well where `spatial local launch` is used. Would it be better to remove the link and maybe add a note that you need to use `spatial local launch --enable_pre_run_check=false` or from the editor?

> When you want to try out your game, you need to deploy it. This means launching SpatialOS itself.

Author: We've got https://docs.improbable.io/unity/alpha/reference/concepts/deployments that we can link to for local deployments?

> **Related:**
>
> * [How to deploy your game]({{urlRoot}}/reference/concepts/deployments)

## Feature modules

The GDK for Unity is made up of the [core module](#core-module) and a number of [feature modules](#feature-modules). Feature modules are optional features that you can choose to include in your game (player lifecycle, for example). 

They are intended to:

* give you a head-start in the development of your game
* act as reference material for best practices

> **Related:**
>
> * [Core and Feature modules]({{urlRoot}}/modules/core-and-feature-module-overview)

## Game client

<span style="display: block;margin-top: -20px;font-size: 10pt;"><i>Not to be confused with [client-worker](#client-worker).</i></span>

A game client is a binary. A [client-worker](#client-worker) is an object instantiated by said binary.

## GameObject

> In the GDK, each [SpatialOS entity](#spatialos-entity) that a [worker instance](#worker) has checked out can optionally be represented as a GameObject.

Author: Hmm guess not, "can" does imply optionally

> * [Sending and receiving events using ECS]({{urlRoot}}/reference/workflows/ecs/interaction/events)

## MonoBehaviour

A MonoBehaviour stores the data and logic that defines the behaviour of the GameObject they are attached to. We provide support to [interact with SpatialOS using MonoBehaviours]({{urlRoot}}/reference/workflows/monobehaviour/interaction/reader-writers/lifecycle).

> **Related:**
>
> * [Unity Scripting API Reference: MonoBehaviour](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/MonoBehaviour.html)

## Project name

<span style="display: block;margin-top: -20px;font-size: 10pt;"><i>Not to be confused with [SpatialOS Project](#spatialos-project) or [Unity Project](#unity-project).</i></span>

Your project name is randomly generated when you sign up for SpatialOS. It’s usually something like `beta_someword_anotherword_000`. You can find your project name in the [Console](https://console.improbable.io/).

You must specify this name in the [spatialos.json](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/reference/file-formats/spatialos-json) file in the root of your [SpatialOS project](#spatialos-project).

## Persistence

> Persistence is a SpatialOS [component](#spatialos-component) in the standard [schema](#schema) library. It’s optional, but all SpatialOS [entities](#spatialos-entity) that you want to persist in the [world](#spatialos-world) must have this component. Persistence means that entities are saved into [snapshots](#snapshot).

Author: Rewrote it in the style of "Position". PTAL :)

SpatialOS uses schema to [generate code](#code-generation). You can use this generated code in your [workers](#worker) to interact with [SpatialOS entities](#spatialos-entity) in the SpatialOS world.

> **Related:**
>
> * [Introduction to schema](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/schema/introduction)
> * [Schema reference](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/schema/reference)

## Simulated Player

Simulated players are client-worker instances running in the cloud, mimicking real players of your game from a connection flow and server-worker load perspective. To SpatialOS they are indistinguishable from real players, so this is the recommended approach to regular scale testing.

In the FPS Starter Project, simulated players are hosted in a separate deployment to ensure that they do not share resources with `UnityGameLogic` server-worker instances. They are managed by [Simulated Player Coordinator](#simulated-player-coordinator) worker-instances.

## Simulated Player Coordinator

> A simulated player coordinator is a server-worker responsible for launching simulated players, connecting them into a game deployment, and managing their lifetime.

Author: I'm not sure 😕

> A simulated player coordinator is a server-worker responsible for launching simulated players, connecting them into a game deployment, and managing their lifetime.

Reviewer: decided not to capitalize it

* Optional [snapshots](#snapshot) of the project’s [SpatialOS world](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#spatialos-world)
* Configuration files, mostly containing settings for [deployments](#deploying) (for example, [launch configuration files](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/worker-configuration/launch-configuration))

> **Related:**
>
> * [Project directory structure](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/reference/project-structure)

## SpatialOS Runtime

<span style="display: block;margin-top: -20px;font-size: 10pt;"><i>Also known as "SpatialOS".</i></span>

<span style="display: block;margin-top: -20px;font-size: 10pt;"><i>Not to be confused with the [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world).</i></span>

> A SpatialOS Runtime instance manages the [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world) of each [deployment](#deploying) by storing all [SpatialOS entities](#spatialos-entity) and the current state of their [SpatialOS components](#spatialos-component). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A SpatialOS Runtime instance manages the [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world) of its [deployment](#deploying) by storing all [SpatialOS entities](#spatialos-entity) and the current state of their [SpatialOS components](#spatialos-component). 
```

* Optional [snapshots](#snapshot) of the project’s [SpatialOS world](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#spatialos-world)

> * Configuration files, mostly containing settings for [deployments](#deploying) (for example, [launch configuration files](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/worker-configuration/launch-configuration))

Reviewer: link is broken

Reviewer 2: https://docs.improbable.io/reference/13.8/shared/project-layout/launch-config

> **Related:**
>

> > * [Project directory structure](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/reference/project-structure)

Reviewer: link is broken

Reviewer 2: https://docs.improbable.io/reference/13.8/shared/project-layout/files-and-directories

### Client-worker

<span style="display: block;margin-top: -20px;font-size: 10pt;"><i>Also known as “external worker”, “client-side worker”, or “client”.</i></span>

While the lifecycle of a [server-worker](#server-worker) is managed by the SpatialOS Runtime, the lifecycle of a client-worker is managed by the [game client](#game-client).

Client-workers are typically tasked with visualizing what’s happening in the [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world) and handling player input.

### Server-worker

<span style="display: block;margin-top: -20px;font-size: 10pt;"><i>Also known as “managed worker”, “server-side worker”.</i></span>

A server-worker is a [worker instance](#worker) whose lifecycle is managed by SpatialOS. When running a [deployment](#deploying), the SpatialOS Runtime starts and stops server-workers based on your chosen [load balancing](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#load-balancing) configuration.

Server-workers are typically tasked with running game logic and physics simulation.

> **Related:**
>

> > * [Managed worker (server-worker) launch configuration](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/worker-configuration/launch-configuration#managed-worker-launch-configuration)

Reviewer: link is broken

## Worker attribute

Worker attributes are used to denote a [worker’s](#worker) capabilities. 

The [SpatialOS Runtime](#spatialos-runtime) uses these attributes to delegate [authority](#authority) over [SpatialOS components](#spatialos-component) in combination with the defined [ACL](#access-control-list-acl). 

A worker’s attributes are defined in its [worker configuration JSON](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/project-layout/bridge-config).

> **Related:**
>
> * [Worker attributes](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#worker-attribute)

> > * [Bridge configuration](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/worker-configuration/bridge-config#worker-attribute-sets)

Reviewer: link is broken

Reviewer 2: https://docs.improbable.io/reference/13.8/shared/project-layout/launch-configuration#managed-worker-launch-configuration

Additionally, the worker adds [ECS systems](#unity-ecs-system) to this world to define the logic that should be run on those ECS entities. The GDK synchronizes this world with the worker’s view stored in the [SpatialOS Runtime](#spatialos-runtime).

## Write access

<span style="display: block;margin-top: -20px;font-size: 10pt;"><i>Also known as "authority".</i></span>

Many [worker instances](#worker) can connect to a [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world). However, at most one worker instance can have write acesss on a component on a [SpatialOS entity](#spatialos-entity). This worker instance is the only one that can modify the component’s state and handle commands for that component.

An entity’s [access control list (ACL)](#access-control-list-acl) governs which worker types can have write access (or authority) over each component.

SpatialOS manages which specific worker instance has write access over a component. This can change regularly due to [load balancing](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#load-balancing).

> **Related:**
>

> > * [Understanding read and write access](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/design/understanding-access)

Reviewer: link is broken, same for Read Access and authority entry

Reviewer 2: probably one of these?

https://docs.improbable.io/reference/13.8/shared/authority-and-interest/introduction
https://docs.improbable.io/reference/13.8/shared/authority-and-interest/interest/active-read-access
https://docs.improbable.io/reference/13.8/shared/authority-and-interest/write-access-authority

For example, a health system might iterate over all entities that have health and damage components, and decrement health components by the value of the damage components.

## Unity ECS world

<span style="display: block;margin-top: -20px;font-size: 10pt;"><i>Not to be confused with the [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world).</i></span>

An ECS world contains a collection of ECS entities and systems to perform logic on these entities.

In the GDK, ECS worlds (and everything in them) are an abstraction used to represent the part of the [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world) that a worker has checked out. A worker is coupled to its ECS world.

> **Related:**
>
> * [Unity ECS documentation: World](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.entities@0.0/manual/world.html)

## Unity packages

In Unity there are two [types of packages](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/AssetPackages.html):

* Asset packages, available on the Unity Asset Store, which allow you to share and re-use Unity Projects and collections of assets.
* Unity packages, available through the Package Manager window. You can import a wide range of assets, including plugins directly into Unity with this type of package.

> In the GDK each feature module, and the core modules are Unity packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the GDK, each feature module and the core packages are Unity packages.
```

maybe?

Author: Yes!

## Unity Project

<span style="display: block;margin-top: -20px;font-size: 10pt;"><i>Not to be confused with [SpatialOS Project](#spatialos-project) or [project name](#project-name).</i></span>

> A Unity project is the source code and assets of a SpatialOS game's Unity [workers](#worker).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Unity project using the SpatialOS GDK contains the source code and assets of a SpatialOS game's Unity [workers](#worker).
```

otherwise it sounds like SpatialOS is always included in a Unity project ;)

## Update Order

The Unity ECS updates all systems on the main thread. The order in which they are updated is based on constraints that you can add to your systems.

> **Related:**
>
> * [System update order](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.entities@0.0/manual/system_update_order.html)
> * [System update order in the GDK]({{urlRoot}}/reference/workflows/ecs/concepts/system-update-order)

## Worker

Workers are server-side and client-side software. They perform the computation associated with a [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world): they are responsible for iterating on the game simulation and updating the definitive state of the game.

### Worker types and worker instances

> When you develop your game, you set up worker types. These are like molds for the worker instances which actually do the computation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you develop your game, you set up worker types. These are like molds for the worker instances which do the actual computation.
```

> It's important to recognize this fundamental separation between the SpatialOS world and the subset view of that world that an individual worker [checks out](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#checking-out). This is why workers must [send updates](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#sending-an-update) to SpatialOS when they want to change the world: they don't control the canonical state of the world, they must use the [Worker SDK](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#worker-sdk) API to change it.

Author: Maybe. It might be worth rewording this as I think the core concept is important

> It's important to recognize this fundamental separation between the SpatialOS world and the subset view of that world that an individual worker [checks out](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#checking-out). This is why workers must [send updates](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#sending-an-update) to SpatialOS when they want to change the world: they don't control the canonical state of the world, they must use the [Worker SDK](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#worker-sdk) API to change it.

Author: Pulled a sentence into the paragraph above to preserve the sentiment and then removed this paragraph.

In the GDK, ECS worlds (and everything in them) are an abstraction used to represent the part of the [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world) that a worker has checked out. A worker is coupled to its ECS world.

> **Related:**
>
> * [Unity ECS documentation: World](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.entities@0.0/manual/world.html)

## Unity packages

In Unity there are two [types of packages](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/AssetPackages.html):

* Asset packages, available on the Unity Asset Store, which allow you to share and re-use Unity Projects and collections of assets.
* Unity packages, available through the Package Manager window. You can import a wide range of assets, including plugins directly into Unity with this type of package.

In the GDK each feature module, and the core modules are Unity packages.

## Unity Project

<span style="display: block;margin-top: -20px;font-size: 10pt;"><i>Not to be confused with [SpatialOS Project](#spatialos-project) or [project name](#project-name).</i></span>

A Unity project is the source code and assets of a SpatialOS game's Unity [workers](#worker).

> ## Update Loop

Author: :rip: links

The Unity ECS updates all systems on the main thread. The order in which they are updated is based on constraints that you can add to your systems.

> **Related:**
>
> * [System update order](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.entities@0.0/manual/system_update_order.html)
> * [System update order in the GDK]({{urlRoot}}/reference/workflows/ecs/concepts/system-update-order)

## Worker

Workers are server-side and client-side software. They perform the computation associated with a [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world): they are responsible for iterating on the game simulation and updating the definitive state of the game.

### Worker types and worker instances

When you develop your game, you set up worker types. These are like molds for the worker instances which actually do the computation.

> Worker instances are the programs that compute and connect a SpatialOS world. In general, you use one or more server-worker instances to compute the world, and each player’s client software uses a client-worker instance to interact with the world.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Worker instances are the programs that compute and connect a SpatialOS world. In general, you use one or more server-worker instances to simulate the world, and each player’s client software uses a client-worker instance to interact with the world.
```

I personally prefer simulate to compute, but it's not a strong opinion

Author: This was copy-pasta'ed from the other glossary, so I'd take that one up with @ElleEss or @anne-edwards

Reviewer: in that case just leave it as it is

> * [Bridge configuration](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/worker-configuration/bridge-config#worker-attribute-sets)

## Worker flags

A worker flag is a key-value pair that workers can access during runtime. 

Worker flags can be set in their [launch configuration](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/reference/file-formats/launch-config). 

Worker flags can be modified at runtime through:

* The [`spatial` CLI](#spatial-command-line-tool-cli) for local and cloud deployments.
* The [SpatialOS Console](#spatialos-console) for cloud deployments.
* The Platform SDK for cloud deployments.

> **Related:**
>
> * [Worker flag documentation](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/worker-configuration/worker-flags#worker-flags)
> * [`spatial` CLI documentation](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/spatialos-cli-introduction)
> * [Platform SDK API reference](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/platform-sdk/reference/home)

## Worker SDK

> The GDK is built on top of a specialized version of the C# Worker SDK. This specialized C# Worker SDK is itself built on top of the [C API](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/capi/introduction). 

Reviewer: link is broken

Reviewer: also do we need to say it's a specialized version instead of just linking to it

Author: I guess its to steer people away from looking at the C# Worker SDK docs and getting confused?

Author: Fixed the link

Reviewer: ah yeah. I thought we had added documentation for that, but doesn't look like it. In that case that's fine

> **Related:**
>
> * [Managed worker (server-worker) launch configuration](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/worker-configuration/launch-configuration#managed-worker-launch-configuration)

## Worker attribute

Worker attributes are used to denote a [worker’s](#worker) capabilities. 

The [SpatialOS runtime](#spatialos-runtime) uses these attributes to delegate [authority](#authority) over [SpatialOS components](#spatialos-component) in combination with the defined [ACL](#access-control-list-acl). 

A worker’s attributes are defined in its [worker configuration JSON](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/worker-configuration/bridge-config#worker-attribute-sets).

> **Related:**
>
> * [Worker attributes](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#worker-attribute)
> * [Bridge configuration](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/worker-configuration/bridge-config#worker-attribute-sets)

## Worker flags

A worker flag is a key-value pair that workers can access during runtime. 

> Worker flags can be set in their [launch configuration](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/reference/file-formats/launch-config) or added/changed/removed at runtime through the SpatialOS console. 

Reviewer: or through CLI (at least for local)

> **Related:**
>
> * [Worker flag documentation](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/worker-configuration/worker-flags#worker-flags)

## Worker SDK

The GDK is built on top of a specialized version of the C# Worker SDK. This specialized C# Worker SDK is itself built on top of the [C API](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/capi/introduction). 

The Worker SDK handles the implementation details of communicating to the SpatialOS runtime and provides a serialization library.

> **Related:**
>
> * [Worker SDK](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/glossary#worker-sdk)

> ## Worker Origin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Worker origin
```
